>> Steve Kinney: What we're going to
talk about next is this idea of fine
tuning, right?
Which is again,
like right now we're going on.
However this model was trained.
Let's say, you know,
you always want a particular format.
You know you want it to
stylistically do a thing.
If you are just trying to get it to know
more content, you are probably better
off using like, as we've been alluding to
that kind of like augmenting the prompts
with the relevant data and
giving it to a giant model, right?
The interesting game as we talk about
fine tuning that we'll go into is
the bigger the model,
the more things you have to fine tune.
That is expensive, right?
So my heuristic for
you is if you are trying to just have it
know about more things, you should just
augment the prompts with the more things
that it should be working with, right?
Whether you do that as you use chatgpt and
just paste in a bunch of stuff,
or whether you use some kind of
vector database to augment it,
if you want to change the style
in which it produces output,
that is usually better for fine tuning,
can you do one or the other?
Either way, of course, it's just like,
do you like your money or not?
And what is more efficient
based on what you want to do?
So if you want to add more context,
using a vector database where you get
the embeddings and just jamming on that
context is probably faster and cheaper.
And the better way to do it if you
would like to change the style,
then you come to the world where doing the
fine tuning makes a little bit more sense.
All right,
let's talk a little bit about fine tuning.
We're gonna do metaphors because
mathematical formulas are boring.
So fine tuning is.
You're not necessarily creating
a new model from scratch.
Remember, we said before, the way
that you train a model, effectively,
figuratively, is you start out with
a bunch of stuff pointed in random places.
You have the answer key already.
You give it the first word,
you tell it to guess the second word.
If it's right, you give it a cookie.
If it's wrong, you don't.
And it begins.
It randomly tweaks the knobs until it
gets good enough that it has somehow
tweaked the knobs to all the right places,
where it is mostly right all the time.
That's expensive.
That takes a lot of time.
And GPU and electricity and in this
current day and age, fossil fuels and
all those fun things.
What's probably better in A lot of
cases is take a model that already
knows most things and just pick up from
there and feed it more stuff, right?
So imagine you speak English.
You want to learn about AI.
At first,
Steve said a bunch of words to you.
You're like,
I don't know what any of those mean.
And hopefully if he keeps saying them at
you, you not only still know English,
which is a good starting, because if you
didn't know English when you walked in
here, everything I've said has probably
not worked out super well for.
You.
But you ideally can over
time kind of pick up from
all of the stuff you already know and
just add more stuff onto it.
You just need to learn what a causal
attention mask is or a vector database or
an embedding and
what that means in this case and
add it into the fact that you
already know what a computer is.
That's effectively what we're
doing with this fine tuning.
Because the model already knows
general how sentences work.
You don't want to teach
a model how sentences work.
I mean, maybe you do.
If you do, OpenAI will happily hire you.
But generally speaking,
for the practical thing,
you're probably going to sit down
to tomorrow starting from scratch.
I mean, they don't even want to
start from scratch tomorrow, right?
They have some models that know
the structure of language.
It's fine.
But if you wanted to show it a specific
set of things to kind of build on top of
standing on the shoulder of giants,
you could do something like fine tuning,
right?
Be like, this is the structure of this.
This is the shape of what
a response should be.
This is kind of like more.
And again,
it's more about the structure and
style than it is about the content,
because they're easier, cheaper ways to
just literally shove the content into
the context window programmatically.
But this will allow you
to basically turn those
knobs on top of the existing
turns of the knobs.
Yeah, and so
it's again, learning new specialty
without having to relearn how to read.
Normal fine tuning, again, the bigger
the model, the harder it is, right?
So normal fine tuning is.
You are literally tweaking every knob,
right?
And obviously on a small like GPT2,
that's still expensive and
you can only imagine what it is like,
like the numbers of like,
even the initial training of like GPT4
were like what, 50, like million?
I don't even.
A big number a big money that
I don't have personally.
And so.
But even doing it on
a regular model isn't great.
So step one, if you decide that I
want to go down the fine tuning road.
You should probably do a small model.
But I'm going to argue you shouldn't
fine tune an entire model.
Anyway, when I say I'm going to argue,
I'm going to say research says hence,
thereby I will argue.
And so with fine tuning,
you are effectively going
through the entire textbook.
The textbook is there,
but you are going and
effectively updating the entire textbook,
right?
And depending on the size of the book,
could be expensive.
Then came this idea of what if instead
of rewriting the entire textbook,
we just added like another
chapter at the end, right?
Like an addendum, right?
Like a post credit scene, if you will.
What if we just added a little
bit of layer on top of it and
tried that out instead?
And that is what we call
parameter efficient fine tuning.